this is a video really about my approach
to relationships and Melissa women out
relationship with right now is just off
camera now why would anyone make a video
talking about their approach to
relationships I think it was really
interesting for me to see how new and
different and unexpected this aspect of
my philosophy was for Melissa and it
originates from a series of observations
in my life that are both shallow and
profound it's the kind of thing that
doesn't get talked about a lot in
academic philosophy ancient or modern
you know so I think it is really worth
talking about here and I can very
clearly remember the stages of my
covering this realization and how I
started living and acting this way in
relationships and it doesn't just have
implications for my love life for my sex
life it has implications for my
scholarly and intellectual life and even
like working out of the gym it has a lot
of implication my life and the
fundamental point is this is to stop
thinking of the world in terms of the
difference between the mask and the face
things as they truly are their essence
as their identity and what we merely do
with them what we merely do in real life
that what you are is what you do and
that it's actually somewhat meaningless
and even insane to think of yourself as
being something quite different from
what you're you're doing so when I
started this relation with Melissa this
got talked out in the following
down-to-earth ways know you know you
love me I know you love me and you know
that I love you but being loving is
something you do every day
all the time a hundred thousand times a
day or that you don't do that you fail
to do and if you fail to do it then
there's a very real sense in which you
don't love me because I don't have this
category of being like of secret and
concealed being as separate from what's
what's real here and now so there's no
distinction here between the mask and
the face now a lot of couples a lot once
they make this commitment to
I love you I'm in love with you and you
love me that really almost becomes a
pretext to be abusive and take the
person for granted because the only AI
we already established that I love you
so the seduction phase the relationship
is over and now there's no emphasis
placed on being loving which they may
think of as as being seductive right now
I'm gonna jump around here to a few
other less sexy examples I remember
reading a kind of memoir from a Buddhist
monk I'm choosing not to name him I do
remember the title of the book and so on
and he talked about the importance of
respecting a statue of the Buddha every
day and every time you walk past it now
for me at the time this was just kind of
mind-blowing and very alien because I
was a I was a very secular nihilistic
philosophical Buddhist like in terms of
the ancient texts and Buddhism
philosophy there's nothing about statues
it's not supposed to be a religion about
statues and musical instruments like
bells then you go to a Buddhist
monastery at the 21st century it seems
like all that anyone is doing is ringing
bells and worshiping statues you know
this is not what they're supposed to be
so here was this you know erudite monk
saying no no when you live in your own
little monastic cave or whatever you
know set up the statue make sure there's
only one statue and you'll see why in a
second and every time you walk past the
statute doesn't matter if you're on your
way to the bathroom
you're on the you're on your way to
answer the telephone or something in
reality put a smoke of telephones even
if they live in a cave that every time
you take the moment to make eye contact
with the statue and bow to it the
Chargers back because otherwise it was a
really interesting perspective to me
totally totally totally alien still in
some ways I can't relate to it but in
terms of this fundamental point that
there's no distinction between doing and
being you know what I mean it's like
well what if you don't do this so what
are you are you the kind of Buddhist
monk who only boughs to the statute when
there were other people around to
perceive you are you the kind of
Buddhist monk Oh only boughs to the
statue on holidays why you here why
in this Canyon what did you do this it's
an interesting point where it's like
well this this is merely symbolic but if
you're not doing this all the time you
know what are you who are you what are
you what are you doing here in this cave
and you're just some guy in the cave
won't answer the phone right so I mean
you know that there's a real sense in
which we so we live in a small apartment
in Victoria you know and like almost
every time I walk past Melissa I kiss
her and I asked her to stop and kiss me
and it's it normally is she's on her way
to the bathroom or she's on her way as
the phone it's it's it's the meaningless
drudgery of the day she's engaged in and
I stop and I take that moment to kiss
her on the face kiss on the cheek and
you know whether or not I tell her I
love her you know squeeze her hand and
look in her eye and have that I can't
have that moment whatever of being
loving you know like all day every day
yeah yeah yeah and I'm you know on I
think I think of other people were
watching they'd be really surprised and
think it's 2 o-two or ridiculous in that
but if you're not doing that we just be
like coworkers most what you've seen the
setup of the of the apartment she has a
desk over here of a desk over there we
have stacks of books we have things to
work on but no you're not my coworker
this is not an office you know every
time you know any asana she's in a
Russian you know you know what you know
what's let's you know let's take the
moment to kiss and hold hands whatever
you know so again you know being loving
it's not something separable from being
in love or making this decision you know
I love you now I mean again most I don't
know if you want to jump in but I mean
like I remember for you that was really
jarring yeah well I said you know it's
not enough that you love me or you're in
love look I know that I know that but
this isn't about knowing that this isn't
about identity this isn't like a hat you
put on or or a badge you sew on your
jacket I mean it's not you know if you
can't actually be loving as a practice
if you don't get into the habit and
rhythm of doing it all the time then
it's yeah
most of the relationships that I've seen
have not operated right away including
my own parents and that's the number one
example that you have as a child your
parents would not act in an overtly
loving way like this with me you know
have romantic gestures just so it's not
like it was a totally relationship or
something but I think it was really that
kind of operation like you know I saw my
mom making dinner and then my dad would
work
my dad would give her a kiss and a hug
and then you would go watch TV or tinker
on whatever thing he was doing and you
become you become more like coworkers
right yes raising three children what
that becomes your job too and it's less
about being loving toward your partner
and also you know the relationship yep
role okay that's I kind of feel let's
talk for another video
but you're right there is actually
question of how I apply this in trying
to be loving all the time towards my
daughter the difference is then you also
do have to discipline children you do
have the video but I want to stay on
topic here what you see is though but
the when it really comes up is when
there's a conflict between us because
that's was something I had to talk
through with you is like yeah yeah look
I know you're having this conflict than
me about what brand of toothpaste you
want to buy whatever the example is but
you because we do what we've had
conflicts about some things are profound
those are political or philosophical or
something you want to talk about but
most of the time it's something like you
want to buy the brand a toothpaste it
can be something
relatively trivial or meaningless of
that and it's like look you gotta learn
to do this you've got to practice right
you have to know but the point is the
point is not that I want to silence you
well this is a real conflict even if
it's just a two-bit there's something
here you got to communicate to me but
you've got to learn to do it in a loving
way you've got to learn to be loved and
you've got to practice being loving even
in the middle of conflict but it's not
that's not just one you know this is
quite a the thing is if you're a scholar
you're a scholar all the time all the
time there is no skiing vacation for you
when I was a scholar of Pali this
ancient language I had it with me I had
it on my person at the language and I
didn't use a cell phone and use a
portable computer
I had pen and paper type resources and I
would study it ant woke when there was a
delay between meetings or something I'd
be sitting on a plastic chair in a
hallway in an office building in a Hong
Kong to me I would study it on my way to
the gym and at home in Spearman I would
wake up early at 6 a.m. and study it
before going to work that's being a
scholar and you do it all the time or
else that's not what you are and that's
also why I had no problem speaking
myself that way I didn't have an ego
problem like well I'd like to study the
South like to be a scholar of this but I
don't have a PhD or something and within
two years of living that way being being
really commit of course I knew more than
the people with PhDs most people pcs
don't have that kind of discipline then
I have a kind of engagement so I mean
there are a lot of things like not
everything is like that but the point is
look if I'm loving you loving you is
something I'm doing all the time it's at
that level of kind of seriousness and
commitment but the disadvantage is this
brings with it higher expectations right
but you're learning that now with
Chinese and believe me though it's kind
of a topic for separate video but I'm
self-critical about this when I know
what it's like to live that level of
commitment by the same token I know what
it's like to
not be living commitment right if you
want to learn Chinese if you want to
work on Chinese you're working on it all
the time so like one the ferry you're on
the boat you know we commute by bus and
boat we don't on a car you know did you
bring your Chinese with you get out the
books get out you know and whether it's
verbally or listening on the either
you're doing all the time or you're not
right I mean Chinese really does require
that level of engagement so all kinds of
things in life that are like that now I
think in this camp recently if you're
really serious about being a musician
maybe that's not a perfect comparison
Boram you know are you are you playing
are you studying music all the time
there's some other there's another
question this my relationship with my
ex-wife was like this to a greater
extent that I think most people would
would guess now yeah it was different
every woman in my life has been
dramatically different from from all the
rest jeopardize the struggles but you've
heard this anecdote before or babe
toward the end of my relationship with
Mac's wife obviously whether I got was
towards the end obviously that was less
optimist was but toward the end not
early in the beginning we'd already been
together for years we went and checked
into a hotel in Taiwan together her and
I and you know as is often the case you
had to kind of wait around and do
nothing
well the front desk I've got their act
together they're a bunch of front desk
that kind of standing around doing
nothing watching us and we were just
repeatedly holding hands and kissing and
smiling at each other and we kind of
walked over to the window and look out
the window and you know had a little
chitchat and walk back but we repeatedly
as we moved around the room in this
foyer a the check-in area this hotel we
were kissing each other and holding
hands as mom you know and making eye
contact with each other you know my
contact this kind of a giveaway you know
it's like you know oh you just over
there or cleaning the kitchen and I'm
over here cleaning the floor and I'm
looking at the floor and you're you know
it tells you something I mean if we're
just co-workers you know that's
different and all of the hotel staff
they all they all cake I mean it's not
how many people time a three or four
people the hotel staff who were there
does it oh wow it's it's so great to see
a young couple and love like you must
have just gotten mayor
and we're like no no no like you know we
like we've been together for years and
years just true it was it hit the chip
and and they were surprised like oh well
because it was a hotel you know their
flights involved oh well you must have
just been reunited after being separated
- I know you know we've been living
together in the same tiny apartment and
I haven't had a job I think I forget one
exactly this was I think I did have a
job cooked up in a small room no I mean
this is what it is
so the idea of the idea of being in love
or loving someone as a kind of
existential commitment as a way of being
as something separate from doing from
the act of being loving I actually think
is kind of dangerous and poisonous and
in broad brushstrokes I think there's
something really sick and destructive
about thinking like I am and author
would you write did you wake up at 6
a.m. and write today or like I am a poet
did you wake up this morning and we're
component if you're a poet you have it
on you you're on the grind all the time
it's in your pocket ready to go if
you're a writer you're ready to write
you're writing every day you're writing
when you're on the bus or on the ferry
you're writing breaks in between
meetings during your day job I'm not
saying you know the day job it's not
about whether or not you have a PhD it's
not a border you have a credential or a
piece of paper to be a writer researcher
scholar to study pally to study Chinese
to love somebody it's whether you're
doing it all the time
so yeah that's my approach to to being
in relationships and it's my approach to
being my approach to being in a word is
doing